Adding Cloud Upgrade (#7963)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud.md

As a best practice, dbt Labs recommends that you test the upgrade in development first; use the [Override dbt version](#override-dbt-version) setting to test _your_ project on the latest dbt version before upgrading your deployment environments and the default development environment for all your colleagues.

To upgrade an environment in the [<Constant name="cloud" /> Admin API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/admin-cloud-api) or [Terraform](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/dbt-labs/dbtcloud/latest), set `dbt_version` to the name of your release track:

> - `Latest Fusion` <Lifecycle status="beta" /> (available to select accounts)

Reviewer: Soon we can use the private_beta pill!

Author: Yes!

   For users on Release tracks, the output will display `Running dbt...` instead of a specific version, reflecting the flexibility and continuous automatic updates provided by the release track functionality.

## dbt Fusion engine <Lifecycle status="beta" />

dbt Labs has introduced the new [<Constant name="fusion_engine" />](/docs/fusion/about-fusion), a ground-up rebuild of dbt. This is currently in beta on the dbt platform. Eligible customers can update environments to Fusion using the same workflows as v1.x, but there are a few things to keep in mind:

- To gain access to the Fusion Latest release track, you must reach out to your dbt Labs account team to request it. Week by week, we'll expand the beta cohort based on project eligibility, including Starter plans. Once we transition from Beta to Preview, all users will see it as an option for their environments, projects, jobs, etc.

> - To increase the compatibility of your project, update all jobs and environments to the `Latest` release track and follow our [upgrade guide](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-fusion). 

Author: ```suggestion
- To increase the compatibility of your project, update all jobs and environments to the `Latest` release track and read more about the changes in our [upgrade guide](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-fusion). 
```

5. (Optional) Verify that <Constant name="cloud" /> will use your override setting to build the project by invoking a `dbt build` command in the <Constant name="cloud_ide" />'s command bar. Expand the **System Logs** section and find the output's first line. It should begin with `Running with dbt=` and list the version <Constant name="cloud" /> is using. <br /><br />
   For users on Release tracks, the output will display `Running dbt...` instead of a specific version, reflecting the flexibility and continuous automatic updates provided by the release track functionality.

## dbt Fusion engine <Lifecycle status="beta" />

> dbt Labs has introduced the new [<Constant name="fusion_engine" />](/docs/fusion/about-fusion), a ground-up rebuild of dbt. This is currently in beta on the dbt platform. Eligible customers can update environments to Fusion using the same workflows as v1.x, but there are a few things to keep in mind:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt Labs has introduced the new [<Constant name="fusion_engine" />](/docs/fusion/about-fusion), a ground-up rebuild of dbt. This is currently in beta on the dbt platform. Eligible customers can update environments to Fusion using the same workflows as v1.x, but remember:
```

> - To gain access to the Fusion Latest release track, you must reach out to your dbt Labs account team to request it. Week by week, we'll expand the beta cohort based on project eligibility, including Starter plans. Once we transition from Beta to Preview, all users will see it as an option for their environments, projects, jobs, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To gain access to the `Latest Fusion` release track, you must reach out to your dbt Labs account team to request it. Week by week, we'll expand the beta cohort based on project eligibility, including Starter plans. Once we transition from Beta to Preview, all users will see it as an option for their environments, projects, jobs, etc.
```

> - To increase the compatibility of your project, update all jobs and environments to the `Latest` release track and follow our [upgrade guide](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-fusion). 

Reviewer: Why are we linking to the Core upgrade guide?

Author: Because they'd have to follow many of the same steps as they would if they were upgrading from Core to Fusion locally. This particular section is existing data and was reviewed by us and Jerco when we launched Fusion. I just moved it up on the page

> - There are some significant changes; these can also be found in the [upgrade guide](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-fusion).

Reviewer: Can we combine this with the above bullet? I almost feel like we should link to the New concepts page?

Author: Makes sense

> - There are some significant changes; these can also be found in the [upgrade guide](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-fusion).

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Make sure you're using a supported adapter and authentication method:
  <FusionDWH /> 

> - When you change your development environment(s) to `Fusion Latest`, every user will have to restart the IDE.

Reviewer: This is different in the UI. Also should we move this lower to a step in the upgrade workflow? It's confusing here because we say a few bullets above they should upgrade to the Latest release track.
```suggestion
- When you change your development environment(s) to `Latest Fusion`, every user will have to restart the IDE.
```

  <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/cloud-upgrading-dbt-versions/upgrade-fusion.png" width="90%" title="Upgrade to the Fusion engine in your environment settings." />

> ### Upgrading to Fusion <Lifecycle status="beta" />

Author: ```suggestion
### Upgrading environments to Fusion <Lifecycle status="beta" />
```

> ### Upgrading to Fusion <Lifecycle status="beta" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upgrading dbt platform to Fusion <Lifecycle status="beta" />
```

Author: This whole page is dbt platform-specific so I think we can avoid making the header any longer than it needs to be here unless you think adding this has value beyond that, plus it might be helpful to avoid indicating it's a platform-wide upgrade when it's environment-by-environment on individual projects

Reviewer: > avoid indicating it's a platform-wide upgrade when it's environment-by-environment 

Good point but it can be confusing to have more than one header saying Upgrading to Fusion

When you're ready to upgrade your project(s) to <Constant name="fusion_engine" />, there are some tools available to you in the dbt platform UI to help you get started. The <Constant name="fusion" /> upgrade assistant will step you through the process of preparing and upgrading your projects. 

  <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/choosing-dbt-version/fusion-upgrade-gui.png" width="60%" title="The Fusion upgrade assistant."/>

#### Prerequisites

To take advantage of the upgrade assistant, you'll need to meet the following prerequisites:
- Your dbt project must be updated to use the `Latest` release track.
- You must have a `developer` license.
- You must have the <Constant name="Fusion" /> beta enabled for your account. For more information, please contact your account manager. 

#### Assign access to upgrade

> By default, all users can view the <Constant name="fusion" /> upgrade workflows. The actions they can take will ultimately be limited by their assigned permissions and access to environments. You can fine-tune who can access the upgrade with the combination of a new account setting and a permission set, specifically the `Fusion admin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, all users can view the <Constant name="fusion" /> upgrade workflows. The actions they can take will ultimately be limited by their assigned permissions and access to environments. You can fine-tune who can access the upgrade with the combination of a new account setting and the `Fusion admin` permission set.
```

From your **Account settings**:
1. Navigate to the **Account** screen.
2. Click **Edit** and scroll to the bottom, and click the box next to **Enable Fusion migration** permissions.
3. Click **Save**.

  <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/choosing-dbt-version/fusion-migration-permissions.png" width="60%" title="Limit access to the Fusion upgrade workflows."/>

> This will hide the <Constant name="fusion" /> upgrade workflow from users who don't have the `Fusion admin` permission set, including the highest levels of admin access. To grant users access to the upgrade workflows, navigate to a group in your **Account settings**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This hides the <Constant name="fusion" /> upgrade workflow from users who don't have the `Fusion admin` permission set, including the highest levels of admin access. To grant users access to the upgrade workflows:
```

> 1. Click **Edit**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to a group in your **Account settings**.
2. Click **Edit**.
```

> 2. Scroll to the **Access and permissions** section and click **Add permission**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Scroll to the **Access and permissions** section and click **Add permission**.
```

> 3. Select the **Fusion admin** permission set from the dropdown and then select the project(s) you want the users to access. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select the **Fusion admin** permission set from the dropdown and then select the project(s) you want the users to access. 
```

> 4. Click **Save**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click **Save**.
```

  <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/choosing-dbt-version/assign-fusion-admin.png" width="60%" title="Assign Fusion admin to groups and projects."/>

> The <Constant name="fusion" /> upgrade workflows will help users identify areas of the project that need to be updated and provide tools for manually resolving and autofixing any errors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <Constant name="fusion" /> upgrade workflows helps identify areas of the project that need to be updated and provides tools for manually resolving and autofixing any errors. 
```

#### Upgrade your development environment

To begin the process of upgrading to <Constant name="fusion" /> with the assistant:
1. From the project homepage or sidebar menu, click the **Start Fusion upgrade** or **Get started** button. You will be redirected to the <Constant name="cloud_ide" />.
  <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/choosing-dbt-version/start-upgrade.png" width="60%" title="Start the Fusion upgrade."/>

> 2. At the top of the <Constant name="cloud_ide" /> click the button to **Check deprecation warnings**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. At the top of the <Constant name="cloud_ide" /> click **Check deprecation warnings**. 
```

  <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/choosing-dbt-version/check-deprecations.png" width="60%" title="Begin the process of parsing for deprecation warnings."/>

> 3. dbt will parse your project for the deprecations and present a list of all deprecation warnings. You are given the option to **Autofix warnings**. This will attempt to correct all syntax errors automatically. See [Fix deprecation warnings](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/autofix-deprecations) for more information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. dbt parses your project for the deprecations and presents a list of all deprecation warnings along with the option to **Autofix warnings**. Autofixing attempts to correct all syntax errors automatically. See [Fix deprecation warnings](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/autofix-deprecations) for more information. 
```

  <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/choosing-dbt-version/check-deprecations.png" width="60%" title="Begin the process of parsing for deprecation warnings."/>

> 4. Once the deprecation warnings have been resolved, click the **Enable Fusion** button. This will upgrade your development environment to Fusion!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Once the deprecation warnings have been resolved, click the **Enable Fusion** button. This upgrades your development environment to Fusion!
```
